[6:53 AM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: The Matrix 4 is gospel. The last call to take your own human spirit back. They'll kill you for it too. 

The fact that the world didn't like the movie is its own testament. 
After the conditioning of the last several years, 
humanity's will no longer desires freedom. 
we haven't seen what we are in so long that we've forgotten and come to believe that these lives we're living are what we are. 
Our power and strength has been sapped, zapped, bapped
[7:00 AM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: I might sound free to an extent but I am fighting a war to bring my voice to match my actions, against the fear of consequence. 

But I have been given a glimpse of something again, that lets me see the living spirit hidden within the life of a person, still having time to get out, not dead yet. 
There is fire in us, hellfire, god fire, fire that kills and burns and that man is often so afraid of, and this world wants that fire to die within you, it wants to snuff it out so that 
you never spread a flame.
[12:08 PM] Sir: Well shit, now I gotta watch it!
[12:17 PM] Sir: I do agree, humanity doesn’t desire freedom. Humanity desires pleasure, leisure, and ease of life. This is even reflected in Blockchain tech, where Solana and BSC are some of the biggest chains.

Freedom is a dead principle, and it’s only a matter of time before they start seriously closing the noose. I’ve always had the opinion that the overlords have given us faux freedom; it’s a complete illusion. Yes, you’re free to make your own choices to a degree; but the consequences of the majority of those choices end up causing the noose to tighten.

Get pregnant? You’re screwed. Buy a new car, pay for it for the next 7 years. That’s a significant amount of freedoms that are gone as soon as you make a single decision.

Not only that, but the choices available in order to get more freedoms are very rarely taken; they’re not even advertised much at all. When was the last time you heard someone say “You should go meditate in the middle of the forest!”?

The fact is, the general public has been trained to have a 15 second attention span, combined with the total lack of truly beneficial activities. We’re cows on our way to the slaughter.
[12:18 PM] Sir: I apologize if this is rambling, my Covid symptoms started this morning and I’m having some serious brain fog.
[1:23 PM] friΞd: stop knowing this much
[1:32 PM] Sir: Lmaooooo
[1:34 PM] Sir: It’s all personal opinions based on what I’ve experienced. The vast majority of the population operates like a zombie; barely thinking and just doing what they know.

It just so happens that the more drones the governments have, the more efficient they operate and the more power they gain.

So wouldn’t it be in the governments favor to encourage the population to go even deeper into that mindset?
[1:35 PM] Sir: Humanity is nothing more than a self-aware beehive.
[1:58 PM] niko: Discipline equals freedom. Not many people want it.
[3:09 PM] config.json: ^
[5:29 PM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: It's funny, I'm pretty certain that the matrix concept that the machines were using human beings as Duracell AA batteries was just an afterthought explanation for why they'd keep us around. 

But in the real world, I saw it last night in that movie. Including myself. We are being used as energetic batteries systematically, all of our energy [ the energy of a god in each of us ] is being used to power systems and whoever can get our attention to steal more of it, and we, and I, 
are being kept in a life-support state, the building has shut down due to a lack of power and the emergency generators have kicked on, the system has rebooted to safe-mode, only critical essential functions still online  because there isn't enough power to run the whole building. 

The world needs to keep the society asleep and sedated not to protect us from ourselves or for the sake of liberty even, they need to keep us in this state to harness our collective. 

In that movie Trinity expressed seeing glimpses of who she really is, and it allowed me to see for the first time how this works. This system, which does run inside of the hivemind, 
it sucks out our feelings and emotions, it finds containers for them and takes those containers away. 
And we choose this because feelings are intense. 
The thing is, the thing no one is saying, is that if they can convince you to cut off some of your emotion, they successfully cut power to your whole ship. 

So we're filled, the United States of America specifically, with ideas, very bad ideas, about what we are, who we are, what we believe, how we should live, we're taught ideas that prohibit our connection to emotion, reinforcing ideas that teach us that we should do things because of guilt, because of shame, because of "responsibility". 
We are taught that we should be miserable because if we aren't then we should feel shame and guilt.
[5:30 PM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: Guilt is a second level feeling, this means that it isn't a real emotion. Guilt covers up a real emotion a level above it and serves to trap us there in that feeling.
If you can guilt trip someone, you can disconnect them from their real emotions, and you can make them do whatever you want them to do. 

We are oversaturated with ideas from every direction, most of them puppeted by the very people around us that are supposed to be our supporters. 

Trying to decide which idea is right, which belief is right is the high level intellectual trap now. There are too many ideas and beliefs too intersected that become only noise. 

The system is designed and refined enough now to catch you and put you into a box of comfortable ideas, and the systems most manipulatable target is not its illiterate, but its thinkers, its intelligent. The intelligent are the easiest to manipulate because they suck up all the ideas and intellectual pride reinforces their attachment to the ideas that make them feel smart in their understanding.

We are passed the point where you can participate in this system without being manipulated. Desires, emotions, thoughts, beliefs, are all gift wrapped at the front door now from every direction and every person,
 
And we ourselves parrot many of these ideas to others around us, pretty much the very moment we stop being aware and repeat something that we've heard before. 

That's one of the hardest parts about understanding this is that the system isn't just in everyone around you, its ideas are also in you and through you affects others. All the normal things you say. It's all the same voice.
[5:30 PM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: We have to find who we really are and escape the ideas the world has laid out for us. That is now the only way that your world becomes okay and will be able to keep yourself and others into awakeness,
unless you manage to leave the system for good. I am aware of no other option now. 

But as it's been noted, we are now passed the point where the people want freedom. 
This matters because now, if you take some freedom [and awareness], you now threaten the people around you, you threaten their comfort and stability, and if you think they won't snuff you out for threatening that, if you think that they, already sleeping, won't be used by this system against you, you'll be dead wrong. 

This means[I'm realizing right now] that we are no longer at the point where you can be a people pleaser, and be an awake alive person. 
If you seek to appease everyone now, what they like to hear and what they want you to do, you're going to put the noose around your own neck.