Is it possible that purpose could lead you closer to the expansion state? Possible. 
Will the purpose described in the Alchemist will lead you toward the expansive state? Nah. 

The purpose described in that book, aligned with the heart, is a parallel path, it's the heart of the artist. 
The exhilaration mentioned is part of that journey. 
There might be some fulfillment found on that path, but it isn't enough to be a sustainable raison d'etre, reason for being. 
The heart cannot be your sole purpose, your only investment, because you have no guarantee that the heart will stay with you. 
As Jaskier noted in the Witcher, "My biggest fear is what I will do if the muses stop speaking to me." and concludes 
that if that happened, a new purpose would have to be found, there's no other option. 

The artist's spark, the creative light, is not consistent enough for anyone, even those who have a lot of access to it,
to be enough on its own. That is a gift that appears and disappears, not an identity to ground on. 

-
As for the expansion state, 

We still have thinking that life has a solution. The expansion state is not a solution. Life is actually more like a trap in which we're caught between swinging [hopefully not violently] from that expansion to contraction. 
But there is a "state" in which we align with a rhythym between these states in a way that is amazing. 

This is the flow, the river of life. In our world pretty all of us [as far as I'm aware] got swept off to the side of the river. 
When you're in the river, you know it, because expansion is rapid, learning is rapid, there is eternal newness, eternal life every moment. Your emotional growth becomes rapid [the grinch's heart grew 3 sizes that day] in the expansion state, 
and the contraction state is full of change. 

I don't know exactly what constitutes the river but I know a lot of variables when I had encountered it. 
- I had fallen lower than low, rock bottom and had kept falling from there 
- I had a turning point where I had chosen to be thankful for life to god, when I saw a coworker see the beauty in the stars and be grateful for life itself 
- I had some level of appreciation for my life as it was, not as I wanted it to be 
- I had experience with mindfulness and had neared a point where positive thoughts started to dominate my waking consciousness over negative thoughts 
- I had been exposed to Alan Watts and some new age 
- I had developed a willingness to surrender [ potentially the most important / only important variable ]
- I had found an interest in turning my massive ego towards a pride in playing 'hero' by serving others in my job [ in which 'hero' felt like pure vanity and complete self delusion of false importance but was still a high ]
- I was participating in my life and allowing it to unfold a bit, and had a willingness to leap at the time. 

And the final kicker, I encountered people that introduced me to concepts and ideas that seem to have brought me into flow state. 
I theorize that the occultist concept that you cannot read about magic and gain access to its power, the words are alive, and you must have a teacher carrying the living words in order to transfer, literally, transfer 
the meaning to you, with themselves as an actual conduit of this power, I theorize that this concept could be true of gaining access to the awareness of this flow state. 

I theorize that it's possible that you must encounter someone carrying the awareness of the flow state, that can transfer living idea to you. 
That the information in books may be dead, without the active energy of the ideas, without the ideas being true in existence right now in the moment. 
To access certain states I theorize that you must have information transferred to you that is true right now, not information that was true five minutes ago. 

However I believe this is remedied by the choice to participate in life and receive life, to allow life to come to you. 
Technically speaking, it always starts with you, not other. The most important variable could be exploring you in the present moment, as opposed to reading the dead words and concepts of others. 

It's very possible that my words right now are dead, echoes of memories that have passed, not carrying an energy to transfer understanding / concepts. 
But in the present moment between two people I believe it should be possible to encounter a flow state in the now based on the subject of conversation, 
now that I have encountered this phenomenon of significantly expanded awareness and life several times. 
It's always at least been audible conversation as far as I'm aware. The necessary conduit to transfer energy is likely in the voice, 
in the sound of the voice that transfers the data, and that sound has to be new. 