] True: note of the day; If you feel that you don't retain information, be aware that exposure to significant or insignificant experiences change who we are. Even if you are not gifted in the area of photographic memory, know that the information you read does impact you significantly. 

Meditative practice; during the day, take a step back and hone your focus on insignificant passages. What did that make you feel? What line of thought did you travel? And finally, What do you think this line of thought means for the future?
[9:03 PM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: There is certain information that might influence us if it causes us to change our focus and direction, and it does matter which information you're honing in on, but most knowledge is worthless and not memorable, there are a lot of true observations perspectives that don't end up mattering in the heat of the moment. 

If you're consuming tons of information, it's hard to say if any of it is sticking. In defense of some level of change, "I cannot remember the books I've read any more than the meals I have eaten; even so, they have made me.” 

When it gets down to most information though, a bigger question comes into view, and that is, 'which part of my being am I feeding information in an attempt to grow, and how temporal - temporary - is that part of me. You start to see when developing that there are ways to develop that do not last, there are parts of mind that you outgrow and never go back to. Meanwhile there are other parts of you that you can come in contact with in a passing glance, and you start to see the nature of these is that they do not grow in the same way, they don't need to take in information, they already have knowing, and they know a great deal more than you. An example of one of these parts is the "authentic real you", which I have glimpsed a few times in my life, and that person is clearly more advanced than me and has depths and personality that I lack. 
 
With this discretion between temporal and temporary is a deeper interpretation of a verse i've shared before, 
`"But store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where moth and rust do not destroy, and where thieves do not break in and steal."`

The base interpretation of this verse was simply, "Physical, earthly things fade and are temporary, but what is within you is of an eternal nature." 
But the deeper interpretation is this,
[9:03 PM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: There are parts of your soul and within you, barns and sheds that you can store up crop in, and when the fire comes, when the robber comes, those barns will burn down, all of that experience will be lost. There are barns and sheds in your mind that when you leave your storage there, moth and rust will destroy them over time. 
One of these temporary parts for most of us is the logic or analytical mind. Most of the information you store here doesn't last. 
A reason this teaching is important is that the robbers will certainly come and they will burn down your storage houses. Time will also pass and those storage houses will fade away. 

So knowing this you have to determine what kind of soulical growth is of a permanent and not temporary nature, you have to find out what kind of crop, what kind of plant is fire resistant. Among these are in developing the fruits of the heart, and imo certain kinds of understanding. 

The following verse is,  *For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.* 
I don't know every level of depth in this verse. At this moment I can see two levels. 
The first is the obvious,* your treasure is in your heart*. 
The second might be a warning, perhaps saying that if you store your treasure say, on earth, 
now your heart is on earth, and now you've placed your heart where it can be destroyed, and where robbers can break in and steal it. 
So the implied advice would be, 
don't store your treasures in unsecure places, or you are putting your heart in a vulnerable place where it's gonna get destroyed when life blows away those places. 
It's also a message about survival in terms of one's heart
[9:07 PM] Oz The Whale: beautiful
[9:11 PM] True: Shiiiit I just understood why information doesn't stick with me
[9:11 PM] True: One of these temporary parts for most of us is the logic or analytical mind
[9:11 PM] True: I'm so focused on this faculty that retaining becomes hard
[9:12 PM] True: "I cannot remember the books I've read any more than the meals I have eaten; even so, they have made me.” This was my inspiration for what I wrote. I saw it on sorcerawr
[9:16 PM] True: Training your analytical and logic doesn't require a lot of memory, it's like a machine learning architecture where you train with data, then can forget the data itself.
[9:22 PM] True: Take a simple AI that tries and guess a next number from the sequence. First you would need a list of numbers, then you would sum it up and divide by the total amount of numbers to get the average. Once this is done, you don't need to remember the each numbers, only the total amount of numbers and the sum of them. 

I'm inclined to believe that our rational side tends to operate in a similar fashion.
[9:24 PM] True: So if you are concerned with the rational analytical and logical faculty, remembering raw data becomes cumbersome because you are not acclimated to such task. 
[9:34 PM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: yeah that's on point. Our processes and subprocesses are very similar to machine learning and how we can reprogram the mind .
And this concept of temporal even applies to these conceptual scaffolds. 
These scaffolds, the results in your analogy, are the bulk of what we create in the mind. 
There are some of these conceptual structures that have a permanence, and others that will break like a glass castle too. 

There's probably a different issue though to why you aren't retaining information, it's that we expand and contract. You're probably filling your head with information during both states and there's just a consistent overflow and lots of information just isn't getting processed. I'm pretty certain I did this for many years. There might be periods where it's okay to do this, if the information mostly sucks and you really do have to parse tons of it to get anything out, I remember some times like that. 
But remembering that life is moderation, you drink in some data during the absorption state, the expansion state, and then you process that data in the contraction state when you shrink into yourself. There's a dance and a sweet spot to hit where you're drinking just enough information to be comfortably growing and processing. 

The pressure to want to be fixed or figure it all out unfortunately harms that growth, that self imposed pressure and stress makes it difficult to flow in this dance.
[9:36 PM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: The escapism into mass media can hurt this dance also
[2:11 AM] True: How are you supposed to identify as being in a certain state? How are you supposed to know when you are in a certain state? 
[2:27 AM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: With states in general, It is hard. There are 'dead', 'copy' mental states that can seem much like spiritual states, 
but there are things you can immediately identify, 
what kinds of thoughts are you connected to, what kinds of feelings are you connected to, how expanded is your awareness of the world vs. a limited storybook storyline, 
how HD / 4K is the world, are you thinking new thoughts or are you reciting old thoughts in an old pattern, 
our biggest blindness is ourselves so identifying states is one of the most helpful and difficult skills. 
In general what affects what state you end up in the most is what you've been focused on. 
The main variables you may notice are, "Dead" and "New". States of reality are full of newness. States of illusion are full of repetition and what was, even what was true before. 
You can have the same thoughts you once did, but now have them with no meaning and no perspective. 


In terms of expansion and contraction, it's much easier to tell the difference between these, 
expansive states are usually when you feel good,  when you want to connect with others,
the contraction state is when you shrink inward, withdraw away, sometimes enter a more negative state, awareness of self and insecurities and weaknesses, the time for rest, 

Unfortunately for most thinking males, we tend to already spend a lot of time in a contracted state, living withdrawn, living passively and not actively, so we're already low, and then when we contract we go really really low. More activity helps to balance this out, which likely means consuming less information. Less information overload. Actually less books, more relation to the world
[9:16 AM] Sir: After living with my dad for a month, for the first time in years, my mental health has definitely taken a down turn. Compounded by life throwing shade at me.

Sitting here and considering the State that I’m in is an interesting thing. I can actively see that I’m going through what you just described; my usual state is pretty low, I don’t make life my bitch. But now I’m even worse off. I’m in that contraction state that you just described.

Thanks for the introspection.
[1:10 PM] True: Is it possible that you enter expansive state by getting closer to your purpose? Don't remember the exact Alchemist quote, but as you get closer you feel exhilaration.
[7:00 PM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: Is it possible that purpose could lead you closer to the expansion state? Possible. 
Will the purpose described in the Alchemist will lead you toward the expansive state? Nah. 

The purpose described in that book, aligned with the heart, is a parallel path, it's the heart of the artist. 
The exhilaration mentioned is part of that journey. 
There might be some fulfillment found on that path, but it isn't enough to be a sustainable raison d'etre, reason for being. 
The heart cannot be your sole purpose, your only investment, because you have no guarantee that the heart will stay with you. 
As Jaskier noted in the Witcher, "My biggest fear is what I will do if the muses stop speaking to me." and concludes 
that if that happened, a new purpose would have to be found, there's no other option. 

The artist's spark, the creative light, is not consistent enough for anyone, even those who have a lot of access to it,
to be enough on its own. That is a gift that appears and disappears, not an identity to ground on. 

-
As for the expansion state, 

We still have thinking that life has a solution. The expansion state is not a solution. Life is actually more like a trap in which we're caught between swinging [hopefully not violently] from that expansion to contraction. 
But there is a "state" in which we align with a rhythym between these states in a way that is amazing. 

This is the flow, the river of life. In our world pretty all of us [as far as I'm aware] got swept off to the side of the river. 
When you're in the river, you know it, because expansion is rapid, learning is rapid, there is eternal newness, eternal life every moment. Your emotional growth becomes rapid [the grinch's heart grew 3 sizes that day] in the expansion state, 
and the contraction state is full of change. 

I don't know exactly what constitutes the river but I know a lot of variables when I had encountered it.
[7:00 PM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: - I had fallen lower than low, rock bottom and had kept falling from there 
- I had a turning point where I had chosen to be thankful for life to god, when I saw a coworker see the beauty in the stars and be grateful for life itself 
- I had some level of appreciation for my life as it was, not as I wanted it to be 
- I had experience with mindfulness and had neared a point where positive thoughts started to dominate my waking consciousness over negative thoughts 
- I had been exposed to Alan Watts and some new age 
- I had developed a willingness to surrender [ potentially the most important / only important variable ]
- I had found an interest in turning my massive ego towards a pride in playing 'hero' by serving others in my job [ in which 'hero' felt like pure vanity and complete self delusion of false importance but was still a high ]
- I was participating in my life and allowing it to unfold a bit, and had a willingness to leap at the time. 

And the final kicker, I encountered people that introduced me to concepts and ideas that seem to have brought me into flow state. 
I theorize that the occultist concept that you cannot read about magic and gain access to its power, the words are alive, and you must have a teacher carrying the living words in order to transfer, literally, transfer 
the meaning to you, with themselves as an actual conduit of this power, I theorize that this concept could be true of gaining access to the awareness of this flow state. 

I theorize that it's possible that you must encounter someone carrying the awareness of the flow state, that can transfer living idea to you. 
That the information in books may be dead, without the active energy of the ideas, without the ideas being true in existence right now in the moment. 
To access certain states I theorize that you must have information transferred to you that is true right now, not information that was true five minutes ago.
[7:00 PM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: However I believe this is remedied by the choice to participate in life and receive life, to allow life to come to you. 
Technically speaking, it always starts with you, not other. The most important variable could be exploring you in the present moment, as opposed to reading the dead words and concepts of others. 

It's very possible that my words right now are dead, echoes of memories that have passed, not carrying an energy to transfer understanding / concepts. 
But in the present moment between two people I believe it should be possible to encounter a flow state in the now based on the subject of conversation, 
now that I have encountered this phenomenon of significantly expanded awareness and life several times. 
It's always at least been audible conversation as far as I'm aware. The necessary conduit to transfer energy is likely in the voice, 
in the sound of the voice that transfers the data, and that sound has to be new.
[7:11 PM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: Sorry dude. There were a few times I was back with my dad and those were some of my lowest points. Sorry you're suffering. It doesn't help much but, I believe we are far closer to being able to make great change in the contraction state than in the expansive states. Even though expansive is what is more enjoyable, contraction is far more lucrative, at the cost of undesirable and painful.. 

It doesn't make much sense but it's possible that the lowest state is right next to god, 
Not to mention, the silence, in between us and the voices of demons, is the same silence that would bring us peace were we to become still in it. 

It's not unlike the idea that Geralt explains to Ciri that she must face her fears, that the only way forward is in facing the undesirable feeling, sitting with it instead of trying to get away from it 
[7:45 PM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: Pretty sure I'm gonna copy some of my replies to True here to a blog post on a new blog
[10:02 PM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: this is mindfucking me
unknown.png
2.46 MB
1593x884px
Image
[12:39 AM] True: Then there's a distinction to be made, because energy can take many forms. It is converted through many mediums. Perhaps there's different types of energy
[2:52 AM] LittlePeepo: :TPbinoculars:
[3:07 AM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: of course 
