viewpoints from deep reflection / arise from not my normal brain, this is not my normal 9-5 perspective ] 

but now here comes 
3. The 'Old Wise archetype' has started to reveal itself, and it is sharply different in what it sees from the child. 

But what's notable here is that if I'm glimpsing it at age 27 and it's just starting to form, 
then Jungian Archetypal psychology holds some serious weight. Because this perspective and its beliefs are not really from "me", they are definitely a product of a "blueprint" in my brain getting activated. 
So I now hold much more stock in Archetypal psychology. 

It's interesting because here is a new understanding that I'll never change my existing beliefs into new beliefs as I once might have feared, it doesn't work like that. 

Rather, the perspectives themselves have their own viewpoints that expand with data, and it is clear that I am not the one processing that data. 
I am only changing which of these perspectives I am choosing to access and allow to speak..

The process I wrote the short book on, concerning a focus of certain things, 
it's more than thinking, it's action, and it's necessary action, necessary for change. 
We don't simply instantly think better, feel better, act better, behave better, 

there is a real choice and actions we can take to establish this, it's like laying down concrete so that you can drive your car on a road and get the speed up to 95mph where you don't need concrete anymore. 

To answer the question, "Does that really work", you honestly shouldn't take anyone's word for anything, you use the scientific method, that is you try it and look at the results, and you have a lifetime of days to try it again each day and see what is working and what isn't.
 
When you start applying gratitude for example in your life and watch your life get better, you can remove the actions of gratitude and observe and record the difference, and determine whether it is worth the time and effort or not. 

The world regards thinking on an awfully simple level. We think, "If I think of this one thing in a positive way than it won't seem to suck as bad." and when we talk about thinking we're often talking about these passing thoughts that do not really matter at all, and we know they don't really matter, but that leads us to conclude that thinking does not matter. 

But thinking does matter for real reasons, because your thought life is your life. Humanity currently lives in its head. This is the majority of your life, and it is even more than books like Timothy Ferris has written, "If you think opportunistic thoughts you're going to be focused on opportunism and notice opportunities" 

It is much more than that. When you change your thought life and change your focus, what you focus on focuses on you too. 
Anything you focus on starts turning its direction towards you and you can't see it but eventually the two of you meet. 
A similar concept is Jung's Synchronicity and is worth looking into.

All that said, reality is worth changing and in amazing conversations I've had the luxury to have it has been realized time and time again that many times it seems the only way to change the state of reality is by conversing in relevant subject matter on specific subjects that bring a heightened awareness into view for all parties involved. 
It is clearly not in changing how we think in a limited mind, but becoming aware of more of our reality, when your brain suddenly seems to be receiving oxygen and life and the world changes color.